Students are expected to attain 100% attendance for all courses. However, under 
unavoidable circumstances, they are permitted to take leave, provided that the total leave of absence does not exceed 25% of the academic contact hours for a 
course. A minimum of 75% attendance is mandatory to be eligible to appear for the end 
semester examination. Menstrual Leave Attendance Relaxation: A 2% relaxation in attendance shall 
be granted to eligible students as menstrual leave. PWD Attendance Relaxation: A 5% relaxation in attendance shall be granted to 
students with disabilities (PWD). The students shall be informed about their attendance status periodically by the 
colleges so that the students shall be cautioned to make up the shortage.
Attendance Requirement Relaxation: Eligibility for Relaxation: In exceptional cases, such as medical reasons or 
personal emergencies, the Principal may grant permission for condonation of 
attendance for students if their attendance is less than 75% but greater than or 
equal to 60%. 
Students shall pay a fee, as fixed by the university, for each course to avail the 
attendance condonation option. 
This relaxation applies to one or more courses registered in the semester. The 
Principal shall keep all records leading to this decision on attendance for 
verification by Academic Auditors/University officials.  
This provision is applicable only for any two semesters during the normal 
programme duration. 
Attendance Condonation Fee: Students shall pay a fee, as fixed by the university, for each course to avail the 
attendance condonation option.
Attendance Relaxation (Duty Leave) for Participation in Official Events: 
Principals are authorized to grant attendance relaxation (duty leave) to students 
representing the college and Zone in officially sponsored competitions, events, 
championships, or tournaments. 
If a student represents the Zone, they must produce participation certificates from 
the university officials to claim duty leave. For sports activities, this certificate 
should be countersigned by the University Event Coordinator or the Director of 
Maximum Allowable Relaxation: Attendance relaxation is allowed up to a 
maximum of 10% for eligible students. 
Students participating in Intercollege events must produce participation 
certificates countersigned by the Officer in charge of the event. 
Physical Education. For other extracurricular activities, the certificate should be 
countersigned by the Officer in charge of the event at the University or the Dean (Academics). 
Requests for relaxation of attendance will be considered only at the end of the semester. 
Submission Process for Participation Certificates: All participation certificates 
should be forwarded to the Principal with recommendations from the Senior 
Faculty Advisor, Head of the Department, College Union Advisor, and the Dean 
(Academics)/UG Dean/Dean (Student Affairs) of the college. The participation 
certificates must be submitted within ten days of the event, and late applications 
will not be considered under any circumstances.
Attendance Relaxation for Organizing Extra/Co-Curricular Activities: 
The Principals are authorized to grant attendance relaxation (duty leave) to the 
College Union/University Union members for organizing extra/co-curricular 
activities, up to a maximum of 10%.  
For university-level events, students must produce the required documents 
countersigned by the Director of Physical Education of the University or the 
Officer in charge of the event at the University. 
Requests for relaxation of attendance will be considered only at the end of the 
semester. 
For college-level activities, the documents should be countersigned by the 
College Union Advisor. 
Submission Process for Participation Certificates: All participation certificates 
should be forwarded to the Principal with recommendations from the Senior 
Faculty Advisor, Head of the Department, and the Dean (Academics)/UG 
Dean/Dean (Student Affairs) of the college.  
The participation certificates/documents must be submitted within ten days of 
the event, and late applications will not be considered under any circumstances. 
Special Leave for Participation in International Events and Republic Day 
Parades: 
• The period of participation in international events and Republic Day 
parades, including attendance at coaching or training camps and travel,while representing the University or State or Country with prior approval, 
shall be considered as special leave.  
Special Leave for Participation in Inter University Tournaments/ National and 
International Events: 
• Special Leave Eligibility: The days of participation in Inter-University 
tournaments or representing the University, State, or Country in officially 
sponsored competitions, championships, or events shall be considered as 
special leave for the students involved. 
• Prior Permission: Students must obtain prior permission from the Principal 
and University Events Coordinator, before participating in the Inter 
University tournaments/events. 
• The Principal shall maintain all records related to the sanction of special 
leaves, including participation certificates, for verification by Academic 
Auditors or University officials. 
If participation in national or international events and Republic Day parades, while 
representing the University, State or Country, coincides with the End Semester 
Examinations, the next available examination opportunity shall be considered as the 
student's first chance. 
• Minimum Attendance Requirement: Special leave will only be sanctioned 
if the student has a minimum of 50% course-wise attendance for that 
semester. 
• Certificate Submission: After the event, students must submit participation 
certificates, duly signed by the University Events Coordinator, within ten 
days of the event. Special leave requests without prior permission, 
participation certificate or late submissions will not be considered under 
any circumstances.  
Uninformed Long Absence: A student shall be classified under 'Uninformed Long Absence' if they are 
continuously absent from classes or other academic obligations for 20 working days 
without submitting a written notification to the Principal. 
The Principal shall send an official communication to the student, parent, or 
guardian within 15 working days from the start of the absence, directing the 
student to immediately resume attendance. 
This communication should be delivered via registered letter and email. The proof submitted by the Principal for ‘Uninformed Long Absence' must 
include the official communication sent to the student, parent, or guardian 
directing the student to attend classes immediately, and an undertaking that the 
student failed to attend classes despite the notice within the specified time (20 
working days).  
The Uninformed Long Absence will take effect only after receiving final 
approval from the University. 
Students designated as being in uninformed long absence shall not be eligible for 
promotion to the next semester alongside their peers. 
These documents shall be uploaded to the university portal by the Principal 
when marking a student as having an 'Uninformed Long Absence'. Rejoining After Uninformed Long Absence: 
i. Rejoining for Students (Except First-Year): Students, except those in their first 
year, are permitted to rejoin within a maximum period of one year following the 
marking of their 'Uninformed Long Absence on KTU portal. 
ii. Rejoining for First-Year Students: First-year students are permitted to rejoin if 
they submit a rejoining request within a maximum period of two months after 
being marked as Uninformed Long Absence. However, they shall not be 
permitted to rejoin if they submit the request after the last working day specified 
in the second semester academic calendar. 
Rejoining Fee:  
A rejoining fee, as fixed by the university, shall be collected from the student upon 
approval of their rejoining request. 
Removal from Roll List: 
i. If students do not rejoin the institute within the time limit specified in             
Regulation, the colleges are authorized to remove their names from the 
roll list with the approval of the University.  
ii. The colleges are not required to pay any cancellation fee for removing the names 
of students under the 'Uninformed Long Absence' status.  
iii. A cancellation certificate or migration certificate can be issued to the student 
upon formal request. A prescribed fee will be collected from the student for the 
issuance of these certificates. The certificate will only be issued if the student 
has cleared all outstanding dues to the University. 
14. Scheme Migration 
Credit Transfer and Transitory Courses: In cases of readmission from the 2019 
scheme to the 2024 scheme, the respective Board of Studies shall be responsible for 
preparing the courses for credit transfer or identifying transitory courses by 
comparing the 2019 and 2024 curricula and syllabi of the applicant. The Academic 
Council of the University shall review the recommendations from the BoS and make 
an appropriate decision based on these recommendations. 
i. The relevant Board of Studies of the University shall prepare a detailed table 
specifying transitory or equivalent courses for each B. Tech. programme by thoroughly comparing the curriculum and syllabus of the 2019 and 2024 
schemes.  
ii. The Board of Studies may favourably consider the credits earned by students 
under the 2019 Scheme when determining the additional courses, whether audit 
or credit courses, that students need to complete under the new scheme. 
 